---
id: runtimes-webpack
title: Webpack Runtime
sidebar_label: Webpack
slug: /runtimes/webpack
---

The Webpack runtime creates a container for client side TypeScript applications powered by the Webpack bundler.

## Installation

You can install the Webpack runtime via NPM or Yarn.

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @injex/core @injex/webpack
```

## Usage

### Create a container

#### `Injex.create({ ... })`

Creates a new Injex Webpack container.

```typescript
import { Injex } from "@injex/webpack";

Injex.create({
    // Configurations
});
```

Returns a new Injex container instance.

:::note
An Injex container instance is the same on all runtimes. Checkout the [Container API](/docs/api/core/container) for more info.
:::

### Configurations

You can config the Webpack container with the following configurations.

#### `resolveContext`

A function that returns a `RequireContext` generated by the `require.context()` function.  
Since webpack is not loading all the files in your project automatically, we need to tell Injex what is the pattern for the file names of our modules.

* Type: `Function`
* Required: `true`

For example, to load all files with the `.mdl.ts` extension:

```typescript
import { Injex } from "@injex/webpack";

Injex.create({
    resolveContext: () => {
        return require.context(__dirname, true, /\.mdl\.ts$/);
    }
});
```

:::caution
The arguments passed to require.context must be literals!
:::

- If you're not familiar with the `require.context()` topic, you can read about it in the [webpack documantations](https://webpack.js.org/guides/dependency-management/#requirecontext).

#### `logLevel`

Controls Injex's internal logger log level

* Type: [`LogLevel`](/docs/api/core/enums#loglevel)
* default: `LogLevel.Error`
* Required: `false`

#### `logNamespace`

Set Injex's logger log lines prefix

* Type: `string`
* default: `Injex`
* Required: `false`

#### `plugins`

List of plugins to include with the container instance.

* Type: `Array`
* default: `[]`
* Required: `false`

:::tip Example
You can go to the [webpack example](/docs/examples#webpack-runtime-example) to see the Webpack runtime in action.
:::

## Code splitting

If you want, you can leverage Webpack's code-splitting feature when using the Injex framework. Refer to the [`@lazy()` decorator](/docs/api/core/decorators/lazy) documantations for more details.